# Version 1.28.4 (June 2023)

Welcome to the Zowe Version 1.28.4 release!

See [Bug fixes](#bug-fixes) for a list of issues addressed in this release.

**Download v1.28.4 build**: Want to try new features as soon as possible? You can download the v1.28.4 build from [Zowe.org](https://www.zowe.org/download.html).

## Bug fixes

Zowe Version 1.28.4 contains the bug fixes that are described in the following topics.

### Zowe installation and packaging

### Zowe Application Framework

### Zowe API Mediation Layer

### Zowe CLI

#### Zowe CLI (Core)

- Updated Imperative to handle if a null command handler is provided. ([#991](https://github.com/zowe/imperative/pull/991))

- Updated Imperative to fix the `zowe auth li` and `zowe auth lo` aliases. ([#964](https://github.com/zowe/imperative/issues/964))

#### Zowe CLI Imperative Framework

- Handle logic for if a null command handler is provided.

- Fixed the `login` and `logout` handlers, fixing the `li` and `lo` aliases.

#### CICS Plug-in for Zowe CLI

- Updated the `xml2js` dependency to resolve security vulnerability.

#### DB2 Plug-in for Zowe CLI

- Updated `ibm_db` dependency for better support with Node.js 18.

#### MQ Plug-in for Zowe CLI

- Fixed GitHub repository URL in the `package.json` file.

### Vulnerabilities fixed

Zowe discloses the vulnerabilities in a timely manner but giving the user time to upgrade. The fixed vulnerabilities will be available on the Zowe security page. Zowe won't disclose the vulnerabilities that are fixed in the latest release as we respect the need for at least 45 days to decide when and how users will upgrade Zowe.
