# Configuring Zowe certificates 

To configure Zowe certificates, you can use one of the following methods.
- [Configuring Zowe certificates in a key ring](#configuring-zowe-certificates-in-a-key-ring)
- [Configuring Zowe certificates in UNIX files](#configuring-zowe-certificates-in-unix-files)

## Configuring Zowe certificates in a key ring

You can configure Zowe certificates in a key ring by using one of the following options. 

- Customize and submit the ZWEKRING JCL and finalize the certificate configuration by executing the `zowe-setup-certificate.sh` script. 

  - This option allows you to easily review all the security commands that generate certificates and manage the key ring. 
  - You must customize the JCL before submitting it. 

  For more information, see [Use ZWEKRING JCL and zowe-setup-certificate.sh](#zwekring-jcl-and-zowe-setup-certificatesh).
  
- Use the `zowe-setup-certificate.sh` script only. 

  - This is an identical flow as configuration of certificates in UNIX files keystores except that two new environment variables must be set in the `zowe-setup-certificates.env` file. 
  - Caller of the `zowe-setup-certificate.sh` script must have appropriate permissions to the `IRR.DIGTCERT.*` resources. 
  - This `zowe-setup-certificate.sh` script is common to security products RACF, Top Secret, and ACF2.
  - Maintenance for ACF2 ([SO11887](https://support.broadcom.com/download-center/solution-detail.html?aparNo=SO11887&os=z%2FOS)) 
    and Top Secret ([SOxxxxx]()) must be applied to ensure that this way works for ACF2 and Top Secret.

  For more information, see [zowe-setup-certificate.sh script only](#zowe-setup-certificatesh-script-only).


### ZWEKRING JCL and zowe-setup-certificate.sh

<!--[//]: # "TODO keyring documentation - ZWEKRING JCL - describe what it does, describe how to work with 
            it(self signed, externally signed certs), describe parts that could be confusing, 
            connecting CA chain and z/osmf cert. Give an example of the keyring content" -->

The ZWEKRING JCL helps you configure certificates in a key ring in the following scenarios: 
 1. The Zowe certificate is already stored in your security manager's database.
 2. The Zowe certificate is to be imported to security manager's database from a data set.
 3. The Zowe certificate is to be generated by the ZWEKRING JCL and signed by the local Zowe's CA.
 
Do not submit the ZWEKRING JCL as is. You must customize it depending on the scenario for your environment.

To customize the JCL, edit the JCL variables at the beginning of the JCL and carefully review and edit all the security commands that are valid for your security manager.

**Important!**

 - If you want APIML to verify certificates (for example, `VERIFY_CERTIFICATES=true` is set in the `zowe-setup-certificate.env` file), then the root CA of the z/OSMF certificate must be connected with the Zowe key ring. The ZWEKRING is ready for such a scenario.
   
   You only need to set the `ROOTZFCA` variable in the ZWEKRING JCL. You can find the root CA by listing a chain of the z/OSMF certificate. For example,
    - RACF 
      ```
      RACDCERT ID(IZUSVR) LISTCHAIN(LABEL('DefaultzOSMFCert.IZUDFLT'))
      ```
    - Top Secret
      ```
      TSS LIST(IZUSVR) LABLCERT('DefaultzOSMFCert.IZUDFLT') CHAIN
      ``` 
    - ACF2
      ```
      SET PROFILE(USER) DIVISION(CERTDATA)
      CHKCERT IZUSVR LABEL(DefaultzOSMFCert.IZUDFLT) CHAIN
      ``` 
       
 - The Zowe certificate must be connected to the key ring together with its CA chain (all certificates in the chain). 
   
   The ZWEKRING has two variables `ITRMZWCA` and `ROOTZWCA` and corresponding "connect to keyring" commands that support the scenario where the Zowe certificate has one intermediate CA and the root CA in its CA chain. If your Zowe certificate has no intermediate CA or has more than one intermediate CA, then you must add or remove the connecting commands accordingly.
   
   To find out what the certificate's CA chain is, you can use the example commands in the previous note.
   
   If Zowe certificate is self-signed or signed by the local Zowe CA, then ignore `ITRMZWCA` and `ROOTZWCA` variables. In this case, you might see error messages in the JCL related to the `ITRMZWCA` and `ROOTZWCA` variables.
   
     
 - You can share a certificate with Zowe if the certificate is already stored in the security manager's database. Such a certificate should be owned by the special SITE ACID (CERTSITE ACID for Top Secret or SITECERT ACID for ACF2).
   
   In this scenario, you must modify the "connect to keyring" security command so that it connects the SITE owned certificate to the Zowe key ring. Also, you must allow the ZWESVUSR acid to extract private key from the SITE owned certificate. You can do that by uncommenting the security command in the ZWEKRING JCL that gives ZWESVUSR CONTROL access to the `IRR.DIGTCERT.GENCERT` resource.
 
After the ZWEKRING JCL successfully configures the certificates and key ring, you must customize the `zowe-setup-certificate.env` file and run the `zowe-setup-certificate.sh` script so that Zowe knows what the key ring and certificate names are. In the `zowe-setup-certificate.env` file, customize the key ring related variables:

- `GENERATE_CERTS_FOR_KEYRING`
   
   Must be set to `false` so that the `zowe-setup-certificate.sh` script does not repeat the job already done by the ZWEKRING JCL. Defaults to `false` value.

- `VERIFY_CERTIFICATES` 
   
   If set to true, the key ring must contain root CA of the z/OSMF certificate (it must be configured by the ZWEKRING JCL).

- `KEYSTORE_ALIAS`

   The certificate alias must match either the `LABEL` variable in the ZWEKRING JCL or the label of the certificate already stored in the security manager's database.

- `ZOWE_USER_ID` 

   The owner of the key ring matches the `ZOWEUSER` variable in the ZWEKRING JCL. Defaults to the `ZWESVUSR` user ID. 

- `ZOWE_KEYRING` 

   The key ring name matches the `ZOWERING` variable in the ZWEKRING JCL. 

    **Warning:** If the variable is empty, then the script generates certificates to UNIX keystore files. 
 

When the `zowe-setup-certificates.sh` script executes successfully, it generates the `zowe-certificates.env` file in the `KEYSTORE_DIRECTORY` directory. This file is used in the Zowe instance configuration step, see [Creating and configuring the Zowe instance directory](../user-guide/configure-instance-directory.md#keystore-configuration).
 
### zowe-setup-certificate.sh script only

The key ring can be completely configured by the `zowe-setup-certificate.sh` script without running the ZWEKRING JCL. Follow the process described 
in the [Configuring Zowe certificates in UNIX files](#configuring-zowe-certificates-in-unix-files) section but ensure you set the extra key ring related parameters in the `zowe-setup-certificates.env` file:
 - `ZOWE_KEYRING=` - set this variable to the key ring name
 - `GENERATE_CERTS_FOR_KEYRING=true` - set this variable to `true`
 
The `zowe-setup-certificates.sh` script generates the certificates and populates the key ring with the certificates.

The Zowe user ID specified by the `ZOWE_USER_ID` (`ZWESVUSR` by default) must have READ access to the `IRR.DIGTCERT.LISTRING` security resource.

#### Permissions that are required to configure the key ring using the zowe-setup-certificate.sh script

A required level of permissions for the user ID running the script depends on several conditions such as:
- A user ID that executes the `zowe-setup-certificate.sh` script is or is not the same as the `ZOWE_USER_ID` value.
- A Zowe certificate is planned to be signed by external CA or by Zowe's local CA. 
- The `VERIFY_CERTIFICATES` parameter (in the `zowe-setup-certificate.env` file) is set to `true` or `false`.

The access level for a subset of `IRR.DIGTCERT.*` resources differs depending on a combination of the conditions above. 

For example, `READ` access to the subset of `IRR.DIGTCERT.*` resources is sufficient if the user ID executing the script and `ZOWE_USER_ID` are identical, Zowe's local CA signs the Zowe certificate, and `VERIFY_CERTIFICATES` is set to `false`. The subset of `IRR.DIGTCERT.*` resources means the `ADD`, `ADDRING`, `CONNECT`, `IMPORT`, `DELRING`, `DELETE`, `REMOVE`, and `LISTRING` resources.
   
## Configuring Zowe certificates in UNIX files

A keystore directory is used by Zowe to hold the certificate used for encrypting communication between Zowe clients and the Zowe z/OS servers.  It also holds the truststore used to hold public keys of any servers that Zowe trusts. When Zowe is launched, the instance directory configuration file `instance.env` specifies the location of the keystore directory. See [Configure instance directory](configure-instance-directory.md#keystore-directory).

If you have already created a keystore directory from a previous release of Version 1.8 or later, then you may reuse the existing keystore directory with newer version of Zowe.

You can use the existing certificate signed by an external certificate authority (CA) for HTTPS ports in the API Mediation Layer and the Zowe Application Framework, or else you can let the Zowe configuration script to generate a self-signed certificate by the local API Mediation CA.

If you let the Zowe configuration to generate a self-signed certificate, the certificates should be imported into your browser to avoid untrusted network traffic challenges. See [Import the local CA certificate to your browser](../extend/extend-apiml/api-mediation-security.md#import-the-local-ca-certificate-to-your-browser).  If you do not import the certificates into your browser when you access a Zowe web page, you may be challenged that the web page cannot be trusted and, depending on the browser you are using, must add an exception to proceed to the web page.  Some browser versions may not accept the Zowe certificate because it is self-signed and the signing authority is not recognized as a trusted source.  Manually importing the certificate into your browser makes it a trusted source and the challenges will no longer occur.  

If you have an existing server certificate that is signed by an external CA, then you use this for the Zowe certificate. This could be a CA managed by the IT department of your company, which has already ensured that any certificates signed by that CA are trusted by browsers in your company because they have included their company's CA in their company's browsers' truststore.  This will avoid the need to manually import the local CA into each client machine's browsers.  
 
If you want to avoid the need to have each browser trust the CA that has signed the Zowe certificate, you can use a public certificate authority such as Symantec, Comodo, or GoDaddy to create a certificate. These certificates are trusted by all browsers and most REST API clients. However, this option involves a manual process of requesting a certificate and may incur a cost payable to the publicly trusted CA.

It's recommended that you start with the local API Mediation Layer CA for an initial evaluation.

You can use the `<ROOT_DIR>/bin/zowe-setup-certificates.sh` script in the Zowe runtime directory to configure the certificates with the set of defined environment variables. The environment variables act as parameters for the certificate configuration are held in the file `<ROOT_DIR>/bin/zowe-setup-certificates.env`. 

## Generate certificate with the default values

The script reads the default variable values that are provided in the `<ROOT_DIR>/bin/zowe-setup-certificates.env` file and generates the certificate signed by the local API Mediation CA and keystores in the `/global/zowe/keystore` location.   To set up certificates with the default environment variables, ensure that you run the following script in the Zowe runtime directory:

```shell script
<ROOT_DIR>/bin/zowe-setup-certificates.sh
```

generates the keystore in `/global/zowe/keystore`.  On many z/OS installations access to this location will be restricted to privileged users so this step should be done by a system programmer with site knowledge for where the certificate should be stored in a way that the public key can be read but private key access is controlled.  

## Generate certificate with the custom values

We recommend that you review all the parameters in the `zowe-setup-certificates.env` file and customize the values for variables to meet your requirements. For example, set your preferred location to generate certificates and keystores. 

Follow the procedure to customize the values for variables in the `zowe-setup-certificates.env` file:

1. Copy the `bin/zowe-setup-certificates.env` file from the read-only location to a new 
    `<your_directory>/zowe-setup-certificates.env` location.  
    
2. Customize the values for the variables based on the descriptions that are provided in the 
    `zowe-setup-certificates.env` file. 
    
3. Execute the following command with the customized environment file:
   ```shell script
    bin/zowe-setup-certificates.sh –p <your_directory>/zowe-setup-certificates.env [-l <log_directory>]
   ```
   where `<your_directory>` specifies the location of your customized environment file and `<log-directory>` is an optional parameter that overrides the default log output directory of `/global/zowe/logs`, if it is writable, or `~/zowe/logs`.
   
The keystore and certificates are generated based on the customized values in the 
`bin/zowe-setup-certificates.env` file.

The `zowe-setup-certificates.sh` command also generates `zowe-certificates.env` file in the 
`KEYSTORE_DIRECTORY` directory. This file is used in the Zowe instance configuration step, see [Creating and configuring the Zowe instance directory](../user-guide/configure-instance-directory.md#keystore-configuration).
   
The following example shows how you can configure `zowe-setup-certificates.env` file to use the existing certificates:

1. Update the value of `EXTERNAL_CERTIFICATE`. The value needs to point to a keystore in PKCS12 format that contains the certificate with its private key. The file needs to be transferred as a binary to the z/OS system.

2. Update the value of `KEYSTORE_PASSWORD`. The value is a password to the PKCS12 keystore specified in the `EXTERNAL_CERTIFICATE` variable.
    
3. Update the value of `EXTERNAL_CERTIFICATE_ALIAS` to the alias of the server certificate in the keystore.
   
    **Note:** If you do not know the certificate alias, run the following command where 
    `externalCertificate.p12` is a value of  `EXTERNAL_CERTIFICATE` in the 
    `zowe-setup-certificates.env` file.

   ```sh
   keytool -list -keystore externalCertificate.p12 -storepass password -storetype pkcs12 -v
   ```
   Expected output:
   ```
   Keystore type: PKCS12
   Keystore provider: SUN
   Your keystore contains 1 entry
   Alias name: apiml
   Creation date: Oct 9, 2019
   Entry type: PrivateKeyEntry
   Certificate chain length: 3
   ...
   ```
   In this case, the alias can be found in `Alias name: apiml`. Therefore, set `EXTERNAL_CERTIFICATE_ALIAS=apiml`.
      
4. Update the value of `EXTERNAL_CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITIES` to the path of the public certificate of the certificate authority that has signed the certificate. You can add additional certificate authorities separated by spaces (specify the complete value **in quotes**). This can be used for certificate authorities that have signed the certificates of the services that you want to access via the API Mediation Layer.

5. (Optional) If you have trouble getting the certificates and you want only to evaluate Zowe, you can switch off the certificate validation by setting `VERIFY_CERTIFICATES=false`. The HTTPS will still be used but the API Mediation Layer will not validate any certificate.

    **Important!** Switching off certificate evaluation is a non-secure setup.

Following is the part of `zowe-setup-certificates.env` file snippet that uses existing certificates:
```shell script
# Should APIML verify certificates of services - true/false
VERIFY_CERTIFICATES=true
# optional - Path to a PKCS12 keystore with a server certificate for APIML
EXTERNAL_CERTIFICATE=/path/to/keystore.p12
# optional - Alias of the certificate in the keystore
EXTERNAL_CERTIFICATE_ALIAS=servercert
# optional - Public certificates of trusted CAs
EXTERNAL_CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITIES="/path/to/cacert_1.cer /path/to/cacert_2.cer"
# Select a password that is used to secure EXTERNAL_CERTIFICATE keystore and 
# that will be also used to secure newly generated keystores for API Mediation
KEYSTORE_PASSWORD=mypass
```

You may encounter the following message:

```
apiml_cm.sh --action trust-zosmf has failed. See $LOG_FILE for more details
ERROR: z/OSMF is not trusted by the API Mediation Layer. Make sure ZOWE_ZOSMF_HOST and ZOWE_ZOSMF_PORT variables define the desired z/OSMF instance.
ZOWE_ZOSMF_HOST=${ZOWE_ZOSMF_HOST}   ZOWE_ZOSMF_PORT=${ZOWE_ZOSMF_PORT}
You can also specify z/OSMF certificate explicitly in the ZOSMF_CERTIFICATE environmental variable in the zowe-setup-certificates.env file.
```

This error must be resolved before you can proceed with the next installation step.

**Notes:** 

On many z/OS systems, the certificate for z/OSMF is not signed by a trusted CA and is a self-signed certificate by the z/OS system programmer who configured z/OSMF.  If that is the case, then Zowe itself will not trust the z/OSMF certificate and any function dependent on z/OSMF will not operate correctly.  To ensure that Zowe trusts a z/OSMF self-signed certificate, you must use the value `VERIFY_CERTIFICATES=false` in the `zowe-setup-certificates.env` file.  This is also required if the certificate is from a recognized CA but for a different host name, which can occur when a trusted certificate is copied from one source and reused within a z/OS installation for different servers other than that it was originally created for. 

