# Customizing JWT authentication 

:::info**Role:** system programmer
:::

As a system programmer, you can customize how JWT authentication is performed, and also the service that provides the JWT authentication token.

## SAF as an Authentication provider

By default, the API Gateway uses z/OSMF as an authentication provider. It is possible to switch to SAF as the authentication
provider instead of z/OSMF. The intended usage of SAF as an authentication provider is for systems without z/OSMF.
If SAF is used and the z/OSMF is available on the system, the created tokens are not accepted by z/OSMF. Use
the following procedure to switch to SAF. 
     
1. Open the `zowe.yaml` configuration file.
2. Find or add the property `components.gateway.apiml.security.auth.provider` and set the value to `saf`.
3. Restart Zowe.

Authentication requests now utilize SAF as the authentication provider. API ML can run without z/OSMF present on the system. 

Also see the following properties:
    
* **[apiml.security.auth.tokenProperties.expirationInSeconds](./api-mediation/api-mediation-internal-configuration/#runtime-configuration)**  
    This property is relevant only when the JWT is generated by the API Mediation Layer and specifies to the time before expiration.

* **[components.gateway.apiml.security.auth.zosmf.ServiceId](./api-mediation/api-gateway-configuration/#runtime-configuration)**  
        This parameter specifies the z/OSMF service id used as authentication provider. The service id is defined in the static definition of z/OSMF. The default value is `zosmf`.
