# Version 1.27 (January 2022)

Welcome to the Version 1.27.0 release of Zowe! 

To see a full list of release enhancements and fixes, see [New features and enhancements](#new-features-and-enhancements) and [Bug fixes](#bug-fixes). 

**Release demo:** Join the Zowe System Demo on January 31, 2022 to see a demo of what's new in this release, and ask the community questions. Check out the [Zowe calendar](https://lists.openmainframeproject.org/g/zowe-dev/calendar) for detailed call-in information.

**Download v1.27.0 build:** Want to try new features as soon as possible? You can download the v1.27.0 build from [Zowe.org](https://www.zowe.org/download.html).

## New features and enhancements

### Zowe installation and packaging

### Zowe API Mediation Layer

### Zowe Application Framework

#### JES Explorer

#### zLUX Editor

#### ZSS Package

### Zowe CLI

The following enhancements were added to the **core CLI**:

The following enhancement was added to the **Imperative CLI Framework**:

### z/OS FTP Plug-in for Zowe CLI

The following enhancements were added to the **z/OS FTP Plug-in for Zowe CLI**:

* Added second shortcuts to match with Zowe core CLI options.

### Zowe Explorer


## Bug fixes

### Zowe API Mediation Layer

### Zowe Application Framework

#### zLUX App Manager

#### USS Explorer

### Zowe CLI

The following bugs were fixed in **core Zowe CLI**:

* Disabled gzip compression for z/OSMF requests that download binary files. [(#1170)](https://github.com/zowe/zowe-cli/issues/1170)
* Updated Imperative to absorb bug fixes introduced in version `4.17.2`.

#### Imperative CLI Framework

The following bugs were fixed in the **Imperative CLI Framework**:

* Fixed AbstractRestClient silently failing to decompress the last chunk of gzip-compressed binary data that is truncated.
* Updated `prettyjson` and `cli-table3` in order to lockdown the colors package. [(#719)](https://github.com/zowe/imperative/issues/719)
* Updated `markdown-it` to address a vulnerability.

#### CICS Plug-in for Zowe CLI

The following bugs were fixed in the **CICS Plug-in for Zowe Framework**:

* Updated Readme links

#### Secure Credential Store Plug-in for Zowe CLI

The following bugs were fixed in the **Secure Credential Store Plug-in for Zowe CLI**:

* Updated Readme links

#### z/OS FTP Plug-in for Zowe CLI

The following bugs were fixed in the **z/OS FTP Plug-in for Zowe CLI**:

* Fix `download uss-file` and `view uss-file` for files under a symbolically linked directory 

### Zowe Explorer