# Version 1.25 (October 2021)

Welcome to the Version 1.25.0 release of Zowe! 

To see a full list of release enhancements and fixes, see [New features and enhancements](#new-features-and-enhancements) and [Bug fixes](#bug-fixes). 

**Release demo:** Join the Zowe System Demo on November 1 to see a demo of what's new in this release, and ask the community questions. Check out the [Zowe calendar](https://lists.openmainframeproject.org/g/zowe-dev/calendar) for detailed call-in information.

**Download v1.25.0 build:** Want to try new features as soon as possible? You can download the v1.24.0 build from [Zowe.org](https://www.zowe.org/download.html).

## Notable changes

## New features and enhancements

### Zowe installation and configuration

### Zowe API Mediation Layer

### Zowe App Server
* Unified container and non-container behavior. Changed how app-server scripts locate app-server directories so that they work in container mode, where the folder layout is different.
* If the hostname is not explicitly specified, use `GATEWAY_HOST` environment variable over `ZOWE_EXPLORER_HOST` to find mediation layer gateway.
* Zlux Server Framework improved `callRootService` when targeting agents such as ZSS to issue the direct request to destination rather than using an additional loopback request to the app-server. This improves performance, reduces the need for the app-server being a client of itself, and allows for more request options when calling the agent.
* Allowed timeout parameter to be specified in a `callService` or `callRootService` command, such as when needing a long timeout to request an agent response.
* Removed the requirement for app-server to be a client of itself when using the `callService` API by adding the option for requests to this API to be executed that is internal to app-server. This option is compatible with the pre-existing use of `callService`  however, it is disabled by default to avoid disruption. You can enable it by setting the server configuration property `node.internalRouting=true`.
* Allowed new `pluginDefinition` `webContent` destination variable for substitution, `ZWE_EXTERNAL_PORT` that matches the environment variable value, or if absent, the gateway or app-server ports conditional to configuration.
* App-server's `uninstall-app.sh` script is now available in the instance `bin` folder.
* Zss's `zis-plugin-install.sh` script is now available in the instance `bin/utils` folder.
* Added an endpoint for PassTicket generation.
* Added an endpoint for user information.
* Added method to read and set `loglevel` of dataservices.
* Added previously selected content comparison (Diff viewer).
* Removed the Cancel button and replaced it with ‘X’ button on all dialogue pop-ups.
* Added toggle bar to show and hide File Explorer.
* Updated material UI.
* Updated webpack `build` and `dev` configuration.
### Zowe CLI


### Zowe Explorer


## Bug fixes

### Zowe installation and configuration


### Zowe API Mediation Layer


### Zowe App Server
* Fixed an issue with using `app2app` where incorrectly formatted data would not honor `launch/message` `requesthp`.
* `app-server` would ignore when `VERIFY_CERTIFICATE=false` was set, and try to verify `APIML` servers. This would lead to login failures when `APIML` server was on a different system than app-server. Now, app-server will verify `APIML` certificates based on `VERIFY_CERTIFICATE` value.
* Fixed an issue where `app-server` could throw an uncaught exception when a proxied server had a socket error.
* Fixed an issue when fileCopy incorrectly processed files tagged as binary and mixed.
* Fixed an issue where Unixfile Copy and Rename API doesn`t support distinct error status response.
* Fixed an issue where dataset contents API returns invalid error status for undefined length dataset update request.
* Fixed an issue where Unixfile Copy service incorrectly processed files tagged as binary and mixed.
* Fixed the issue where Unixfile Copy and Rename directory API does not support `forceOverwrite` query.
* Fixed the error message & phantom tab when opening undefined length dataset.
* Unable to recalculate the size of `monaco-code-container` when switching from diff-viewer to code-editor.

### Zowe CLI


### Zowe Explorer

## Known Issues
