# Certificate configuration scenarios

As a system programmer, review the different scenarios for configuring Zowe for automatic certificate setup. Examples are provided for each scenario.

Zowe servers require both a keystore to store the certificates as well as a truststore to validate these certificates and any other certificates that are encountered.

For use of Zowe on z/OS, keystore and truststore can either be unix file-based (PKCS12) or z/OS keyring-based. 
Both the keystore and truststore can automatically be created by Zowe regardless of which storage type is used. Keystores and truststores can be populated either with certificates that the user chooses, or with self-signed certificates generated by Zowe. 
This automation can be performed by defining and customizing the `zowe.setup.certificate` section of your Zowe YAML configuration.
Zowe can then automate the certificate setup via the `zwe init certificate` command. This command is run as a subcommand of `zwe init`.

**Note:**  
Automated generation of certificates is an option, but is not required. If you already have a keystore that contains a valid certificate (see the description of a valid certificate), and the certificate's corresponding private key, along with a truststore which validates the certificate and any other certificates you expect to encounter, then you also have the option of directly defining the parameter `zowe.certificate` which specifies the location of each of these objects. Note that this parameter should not be confused with the parameter `zowe.setup.certificate`.

## What is a valid certificate in Zowe?

A valid certificate for use in Zowe is required to have one of the following attributes, regardless of the format:

* A certificate that does not contain the _Extended Key Usage_ section.
* A certificate that contains the _Extended Key Usage_ section and also includes the "Server" and "Client" authentication fields.

## Considerations for certificate scenario selection

When configuring Zowe for certificates, consider the scenario that best suits your use case:

* Will you be using file-based (PKCS12) certificates, or z/OS keyrings?
* Will you be letting Zowe create self-signed certificates, or will Zowe be using pre-made certificates which you are providing?
* If you are providing certificates to Zowe and using a keyring, does the certificate already exist in your security database, or are you importing it via a dataset?

There are five scenarios/use cases for configuring certificates.
Use the applicable certificate configuration scenario according to your needs.
Each scenario described in this article provides the configuration details via code snippets which you can use to edit your Zowe YAML configuration within the `zowe.setup.certificate` section.

* [Scenario 1: Use a file-based (PKCS12) keystore with Zowe generated certificates](#scenario-1-use-a-pkcs12-keystore-with-zowe-generated-certificates)
* [Scenario 2: Use a file-based (PKCS12) keystore and import a certificate generated by another CA](#scenario-2-use-a-pkcs12-keystore-and-import-a-certificate-generated-by-another-ca)
* [Scenario 3: Use a z/OS keyring-based keystore with Zowe generated certificates](#scenario-3-use-a-zos-keyring-with-zowe-generated-certificates)
* [Scenario 4: Use a z/OS keyring-based keystore and connect an existing certificate](#scenario-4-use-a-zos-keyring-and-connect-to-an-existing-certificate)
* [Scenario 5: Use a z/OS keyring-based keystore and import a certificate stored in a data set](#scenario-5-use-a-zos-keyring-and-import-a-certificate-stored-in-a-data-set)

=======
## Scenario 1: Use a file-based (PKCS12) keystore with Zowe generated certificates

1. Set the `type` of the certificate storage to `PKCS12`.

2. Customize the keystore directory in the following format:
    ```
    /var/zowe/keystore
    ```
3. Lock the keystore directory so it is accessible only to the Zowe runtime user and group:
    ```
    lock: true
    ```
4. Customize the certificate alias name. The default value is `localhost`.  
    **Note:** Use all lower case as an alias.
5. Set keystore password. Customizing this value is highly recommended. The default value is `password`.
6. Set the alias name of self-signed certificate authority. The default value is `local_ca`.  
   **Note:** Use all lower case as an alias.
   ```
   caAlias: local_ca
   ```
7. Set the password of the keystore stored self-signed certificate authority. The default value is `local_ca_password`.
    ```
    caPassword: local_ca_password
    ```
8. (Optional) Specify the distinguished name for Zowe generated certificates. 

    ```
    dname:
      caCommonName: ""
      commonName: ""
      orgUnit: ""
      org: ""
      locality: ""
      state: ""
      country: ""
    ```
9. Set the validity in days for the Zowe generated certificates
    ```  
    validity: 3650
    ```
10. Set the domain names and IPs specified in nested subsection `SAN`. If this field is not defined, the `zwe init` command uses the value `zowe.externalDomains`.
    ```
    san:
        sample domain name
        - dvipa.my-company.com
        sample IP address
        - 12.34.56.78
     ```

  **Example zowe yaml for scenario 1**  

```
   certificate:
     type: PKCS12
     pkcs12:
       directory: /var/zowe/keystore
       lock: true
       name: localhost
       password: password
       caAlias: local_ca
       caPassword: local_ca_password
       dname:
         caCommonName: "Zowe Instances CA"
         commonName: "Zowe Server"
         org: "My Company"
         locality: "Prague"
         state: "Prague"
         country: "CZ"
       validity: 3650
       san:
         - system.my-company.com
         - 12.34.56.78
```

## Scenario 2: Use a file-based (PKCS12) keystore and import a certificate generated by another CA

1. Set the `type` of the certificate storage to `PKCS12`.

2. Customize the keystore directory in the following format:
    ```
    /var/zowe/keystore
    ```
3. Lock the keystore directory so it is accessible only to the Zowe runtime user and group:
    ```
    lock: true
    ```
4. Customize the certificate alias name. The default value is `localhost`.  
    **Note:** Use all lower case as an alias.
5. Set keystore password. The default value is `password`.
6. Set the existing PKCS12 keystore which holds the certificate issued by an external CA.  
    ```
    keystore: ""  
    ```
7. Set the password of the keystore set in step 6.  
    ```
    password: ""
    ```
8. Specify the alias of the certificate to be imported.
    ```
    alias: ""
    ```  
    **Note:** Use all lower cases as an alias.    
    
9. Set the path to the certificate authority that signed the certificate to be imported.
    ```
    importCertificateAuthorities:
    ```
    **Note:** PEM format certificate authorities can be imported and trusted.

  **Example zowe yaml for scenario 2**
  
    * PKCS12  
=======
   ```
   certificate:
     type: PKCS12
     pkcs12:
       directory: /var/zowe/keystore
       lock: true
       name: localhost
       password: password
       import:
         keystore: /certs/system.keystore.p12
         password: password
         alias: server
     importCertificateAuthorities:
       - /certs/extca.1.cer
       - /certs/extca.2.cer
   ```

##  Scenario 3: Use a z/OS keyring-based keystore with Zowe generated certificates

1. Set the `type` of the certificate storage to one of the following keyring types:

    * JCEKS  
    * JCECCAKS  
    * JCERACFKS  
    * JCECCARACFKS  
    * JCEHYBRIDRACFKS

2. Add the parameter `createZosmfTrust` and set to true.  
    ```
    createZosmfTrust: true
    ```
3. Under the nested subsection `keyring:`, specify the following keyring values:  

    * keyring name  
        ```
        name: ZoweKeyring
        ```
    * Label of Zowe certificate. The default value is `localhost`.  
        ```
        label: localhost
        ```
    * Label of Zowe CA certificate. The default value is `localca`.
        ```
        caLabel: localca
        ```
    * The distinguished name for Zowe generated certificates.  
        ```
        dname:
            caCommonName: ""
            commonName: ""
            orgUnit: ""
            org: ""
            locality: ""
            state: ""
            country: ""
        ```
4. Set the validity in days for the Zowe generated certificates
    ```  
    validity: 3650
    ```
5. Set the domain names and IPs specified in the certificate SAN. If 
this field is not defined, the `zwe init` command uses the value `zowe.externalDomains`.  
    ```
    san:
      - dvipa.my-company.com
      - 12.34.56.78
    ```
    **Note**: Due to the limitation of the `RACDCERT` command, this field should contain exactly 2 entries with the domain name and IP address.

  **Example zowe yaml for scenario 3**  
=======
   ```
   certificate:
     type: JCERACFKS
     keyring:
       name: ZoweKeyring
         label: localhost
         caLabel: local_ca
       dname:
         caCommonName: "Zowe Instances CA"
         commonName: "Zowe Service"
         org: "My Company"
         locality: "Prague"
         state: "Prague"
         country: "CZ"
       validity: 3650
       san:
         - system.my-company.com
         - 12.34.56.78
   ```

## Scenario 4: Use a z/OS keyring-based keystore and connect to an existing certificate

1. Set the `type` of the certificate storage to one of the following keyring types:

    * JCEKS  
    * JCECCAKS  
    * JCERACFKS  
    * JCECCARACFKS  
    * JCEHYBRIDRACFKS

2. Under `keyring:`, specify the keyring name:  
    ```
    name: ZoweKeyring
    ```
3. Under the nested subsection `connect:`, specify the following parameters:  
    * The current owner of the certificate. Possible values can be `SITE` or a user ID.
        ```
        user: IBMUSER
        ```
    * The label of the existing certificate to be connected to the Zowe keyring.  
        ```
        label: ""
        ```
    * All certificate authorities you want to be trusted in the Zowe keyring.
        ```
        importCertificateAuthorities:
          - ""
        ```
        **Note:** Due to the limitation of `RACDCERT` command, this field should contain a maximum of 2 entries.  

  **Example zowe yaml for scenario 4**

  This example is using an existing JCERACFKS certificate to for Zowe's z/OS components. Find out more details in [this blog](https://medium.com/zowe/master-zowe-certificates-use-an-existing-jceracfks-certificate-for-zowes-z-os-components-975ffa0d9f2f).


```
 # >>>> Certificate setup scenario 4
 # z/OS Keyring and connect to existing certificate
 certificate:
   # Type of certificate storage. Valid values are: PKCS12, JCEKS, JCECCAKS, JCERACFKS, JCECCARACFKS, or JCEHYBRIDRACFKS
   type: JCERACFKS
   keyring:
     name: ZoweKeyringZOSMF
     connect:
       user: IZUSVR
       label: "DefaultzOSMFCert.IZUDFLT"
   importCertificateAuthorities:
     - "zOSMFCA"
```

## Scenario 5: Use a z/OS keyring-based keystore and import a certificate stored in a data set

1. Set the `type` of the certificate storage to one of the following keyring types:

    * JCEKS  
    * JCECCAKS  
    * JCERACFKS  
    * JCECCARACFKS  
    * JCEHYBRIDRACFKS

2. Under `keyring:`, specify the following keyring values:  

    * keyring name  
        ```
        name: ZoweKeyring
        ```
    * Label of Zowe certificate. The default value is `localhost`.  
        ```
        label: localhost
        ```
3. Under the nested subsection `import:` specify the following parameters:
    * The name of the data set holds the certificate issued by another CA. This data set should be in PKCS12 format and contain private key.
        ```
        dsName: ""
        ```
    * The password for the PKS12 data set.
        ```
        password: ""
        ```
  **Example zowe yaml for scenario 5**  

**_ADD EXAMPLE_**
